with no other bears around she makes the
move this is a big moment in the Cubs
lives she's got to be careful though
another bear could turn up at any moment
the Cubs are a bit nervous being out on
the creek and they know they have to
stick close to her wherever she goes
while there are still lots of salmon
around the mother bear can be selective
with what she eats she takes a bite of
this salmon and then drops it as she can
probably tell from the taste it's a male
Bears need to target the richest most
nutritious food source what she really
wants to find our female salmon and
she'll go out of her way to catch one
[Applause]
female salmon are loaded with thousands
of brightly colored nutrient-rich eggs
this is the best part of the salmon high
in calories and fat she doesn't want to
leave any behind
the Cubs though still need to learn
which are the best parts to eat
though the Cubs are still nursing they
need these protein-rich salmon as much
as their mom does the whole family has
to put on as much weight as possible
before winter hibernation
[Applause]
the mother bear is always alert the
potential dangers to our Cubs
surprisingly it's another ghost bear
this one looks like a large male
the Cubs know that when another bear is
around they have to get out of there
they retreat to the safety of the trees
[Music]
the mother bears much smaller than him
but she's still going right after him
[Music]
I'm not sure that's such a good idea
he could certainly do some damage to her
and he doesn't seem much deterred by her
approach
that's a risky move on her part anytime
two bears physically interact like that
there's a good chance one of them could
be hurt they're very powerful animals I
don't know her character well enough yet
to decide if she's foolhardy or brave
only time will tell but her Cubs knew
what to do in this situation they knew
that their best defense was to get up as
high into a tree as quickly as possible
you